Someone from outside the village?
It's that criminal who got kicked
out of the village a long time ago.
Who else could it be?
Maybe the stone statue people
have started moving.
No way.
It surely wasn't Kohaku who
brought that foreigner in, was it?
We don't know yet.
No, it was.
It was Kohaku-chan.
Jasper, you heard what Ginro said.
Don't tell such obvious lies for her.
That fool!
I've disowned her, and she
still doesn't obey the rules.
Damn it.
Ruri!
Tell me, Senku.
How do we make the cure-all medicine?
We're going to defeat Ruri's sickness!
I'll help in any way I can, if it
means Ruri-nee will get better!
Ruri-sama!
I'm so worried.
She's not sick anymore!
Hooray for science!
I'm going to join the kingdom of science!
I see what he's thinking.
He's planning to save Ruri as
part of some sleazy scheme.
I can't decide if he's a
gentleman or a slimeball.
I guess he's just logical, but...
The kingdom of science is going
to be making an antibiotic.
It's the scientific wonder drug that
kills bacteria infecting a person.
It's saved hundreds of millions of lives
ever since it was discovered
in the early twentieth century.
We can't do blood tests.
We have no idea what her disease even is.
But it's worth trying it anyway.
All right, let's get on it right away!
What do we need?
We're missing all kinds of stuff.
Pay attention when I talk.
There are two routes to making antibiotics.
We can take the biological route and
make penicillin from living things,
Sulfa Drug
Penicillin
or we can take the stone route
and make sulfa drugs from rocks.
Hang on, Senku.
Living things? Rocks?
How would you make medicine from those?
Penicillin, made from green mold,
is the more famous one.
But making penicillin in this stone world
would be a crazy game of chance,
where we'd be going, "Hey, we managed
to stumble upon this super green mold
that's ten billion times more powerful, woo!"
Woo!
We'll just have to pray,
"Please, Lord, give us some of
that nice green mold, thanks!"
Meanwhile, the stone route,
making sulfa drugs,
will take insane amounts
of diligence and manpower,
but even in this stone world,
we'll land on the drug, ten billion percent.
Then the answer is obvious!
You get it, don't you?
We're neither gods nor geniuses.
We crawl around on the ground,
making everything step by step.
We're taking the stone route.
We'll get each of these things one by one
and warp right through two million
years of science history.
This is the science roadmap to the cure-all.
Iron
Alcohol
Electricity
Vinegar
Sodium
Bicarbonate
Salt
Sulfuric
Acid
Urine
Powerful
Magnets
Copper
Phosphorus
Sodium
Hydroxide
Hydrogen Sulfate
Coal
Aniline
Chlorosulfuric Acid
Hydrochloric Acid
Carbonic Acid
Acetic Anhydride
Ammonia
Cure-all
Sulfa Drugs
Oh, damn, man!
Let's start with this "iron" stuff, then.
Wait, what is iron, anyway?
Teach me everything.
Iron isn't going to be that easy.
Senku-sensei's sorcery
science classes, huh?
I don't think I could even keep up.
Are you serious?! Damn!
The planet's the one that's moving?! Dude!
Yeah, that's right.
That doesn't make sense.
Why am I not being flung
off this branch, then?
Because there's gravity.
I always thought it was weird.
Some of the stars don't move at all.
That's the North Star.
It's a ridiculously useful star that's
ten billion percent true north.
Remember that.
Oh, is it?
It seems slightly off from true north.
It can't be. It's within the margin of error—
Earth's axis is shifting!
The whole planet has tilted slightly
over the past 3,700 years.
It's currently AD 5,739.
The North Star's moved!
No wonder my GPS screwed up and
got me lost on my way to Hakone.
A true scientist would laugh at me.
How could I not have seen that?
You guys are way more observant because
you have no preconceived notions.
I'm such a loser.
You don't seem like a loser to me, Senku.
I'm not saying that to put myself down.
I think of myself as being so rational,
but I couldn't keep up on
this scale. That's all.
3,700 years.
It never hit me until now
how insanely long that is.
Wait, how did you know that the
ex-North Star isn't true north?
So even the great Senku
doesn't know about this rock!
This crazy rock that I happened
to find on a bald mountain!
For some reason, when you hang it or
float it, it always points straight north!
Isn't that nuts?
It's a magnet.
You know of it?! Damn it!
Good going, Chrome.
If we have magnets...
Look at how much it picked up.
All this suspicious black sand!
We're finally taking the first step on
the road to the kingdom of science.
Iron
The curtain is rising on the age of iron!
Now that's exhilarating.
Seriously, though, that lioness...
Is everyone in your village like that?
We have a few brute strength gorillas,
but Kohaku's the only agile gorilla.
I said I'm not a gorilla!
Also, I'm doing all the collecting here!
Why don't you guys get off your
asses and do some work, too?
We don't have enough manpower!
Sorry.
Acquired iron sand!!
She's right, though.
This is going to take all day.
Should I get someone from
the village to help out?
As far as the villagers know,
you two are both suspicious sorcerers.
Sadly, no one's going to come help.
A watermelon?
It's Suika.
Why are you here?
Did you follow us here?
Her name is Suika?
It's a nickname, probably.
She's always wearing a watermelon rind.
Hey, Suika! you took my magnet!
Iron sand.
I want to help.
I can never make myself useful to anyone
because I have this thing on my head.
That's not going to change
even when I grow up.
So if there's ever anyone in need...
Yeah, yeah, I get it.
I appreciate it.
The kingdom of science
doesn't turn anyone away.
We need all the help we can get.
A shrimp like you would be ten billion
times better at gathering sand.
We're counting on you, Suika.
He's the first person to not ask me
why I'm wearing this on my head.
He must have thought I don't want anyone
to see my face, so he's being nice.
You really don't know Senku.
You're glorifying him too much.
He just doesn't care what you look
like, as long as you're useful.
I'm going to gather all the iron sand!
Donburako, donburako...
Who are you, Momotaro?!
Don't drown!
You don't know Dragon Quest or Monster Hunter, but you do know Momotaro?
Who taught you?
Hey, you know Momotaro, too?
Ruri-nee told us all about him.
Come to think of it,
why do you know about gorillas?
Are they out in the wild?
I've never actually seen one.
But there's a gorilla in Momotaro, isn't there?
No, there isn't!
He used millet dumplings
to win friends, remember?
A bear, a lion, a gorilla, and an alligator.
What kind of wild-ass Momotaro is that?!
Was it meant to be an easy-to-understand
story to teach about dangerous animals?
I heard all kinds of stories
from Ruri-nee, too.
Come to think of it, I think I learned
all my big words from Ruri-nee, too.
Ruri...
Just who are you?
I'm low-key interested in this Ruri chick.
We really need to make the cure-all
and save her, whatever it takes.
What do you mean, you're interested in Ruri?
What does that mean, Senku?
Senku, Senku, Senku-sensei...
Chrome seems to have a crush on Ruri-nee.
So that's what it was.
Here we go.
And Chrome's such a child.
I like how oblivious he is.
What are you guys talking about?!
Damn it, who are you calling a child?!
So the black sand we got from the
river turns into this "iron" stuff?
Yeah.
Mix four parts iron sand
to one part coal, and bake.
Hey, that's easy.
It's harder than it sounds.
It's not like making clay pots.
The highest temperature we can get
by burning wood is 700 degrees.
But ironmaking, turning iron sand
into iron, requires 1,500 degrees.
That's not even close to enough.
What do we do?
We blow like hell.
We have to give it as much oxygen as we can.
We'll send in a ton of air
and double the flame's damage
output from 700 to 1,500.
This thing blows air?
With something this useful,
I could probably do it by myself.
You can make that claim once you've done it.
We're never going to have enough manpower.
Damn it, my arms are killing me!
Don't you dare take a break!
It'll get cooler!
How many more minutes are we doing this?
Roughly... another... twenty to thirty hours.
Ironmaking is insane!
Don't push yourself, Suika!
Take a break!
I still can't make myself useful.
It looks like they're up to
something really grueling.
I-I... I think I'm going to help—
No, Ginro.
Don't abandon your post.
Rules are rules.
Come on.
Just because you already had
a golden spear made for you...
I want...
A thing?!
That's incredibly low, Ginro!
Swap spears with me, then.
No.
I'll settle for gold, even though that's
kin for gold instead of gin for silver.
No!
Manpower is our top priority.
The kingdom of science needs more citizens.
The spear...
Kinro...
I knew it.
We almost have Ginro.
Good.
This is working in our favor!
We're using the bait that is
science to gain manpower!
Quit calling it bait, both of you.
But it's not like the whole village
is going to appreciate a shiny spear.
We need intel about what people want.
I'm good at that kind of thing!
I can turn into a watermelon, so I can
go anywhere without being noticed!
Not bad.
All right, Great Detective Suika-sama,
we call on your services to find
us manpower for ironmaking.
You got this, Great Detective Suika!
Great Detective Suika...
I'm going to make myself useful!
So where did that foreigner go?
The one Kohaku supposedly brought in.
He's living in Chrome's shed!
The elder believes we should let him be,
so long as he doesn't try
to come into the village.
I agree with that.
But if he tries to do anything funny...
I'll kill anyone who's a threat.
Yeah!
And Ruri will fall for me.
The only question is whether
that man is strong or not, right?
I don't care if he's strong or not.
What matters is that he's got a good face.
I don't care about a man's
inner or outer beauty!
As long as he can hunt and stuff!
Seriously, though...
All three of us sisters have different
tastes, so how are we all still single?!
Fresh fish is so delicious.
The flesh is so firm.
I'm so tired of grilled fish.
I went to listen in on people,
to see if there's anything they want.
First, the dazzling sisters,
Garnet, Sapphire, and Ruby.
Ah, the prettiest girls in town.
What those three really want...
I'd appreciate if it's something we can
make with the technology of this age.
...is a boyfriend!
And that's something we have no
chance of making with science!
A strong man.
A handsome man.
Someone who'll feed me.
They're perfectly faithful to their desires.
If you ask me, you're quite
an attractive man, Senku.
But I don't think you're the kind of
"handsome man" that Sapphire's asking for.
Look at them, saying whatever they want.
This is the problem with women.
That's why I hate women.
You're such a child, Chrome.
Ruri-nee and I are both women,
so do you hate us?
Kohaku, I don't think of you as a woman.
You're a gorilla.
I'm sorry.
I think I have a shot with the one
who wants someone to feed her.
What does she want?
A feast, like fish and stuff.
Speaking of feasts, Ganen,
the biggest glutton in town,
So sick of this...
said he's bored to death of
eating grilled fish every day.
So sick of this...
He's been looking for something new to try.
I knew you could do it,
Great Detective Suika-sama.
I can already see the scientific bait
we need to get them on our side.
Are you actually going to cook for them?
What does that have to do with science?
It has everything to do with science.
Food is science.
Where do you think the umami of the
fish you eat every day comes from?
It's glutamic acid and inosinic acid.
Suika, what is that, anyway?
This is my friend Chalk's favorite toy.
Dogtail millet!
You mean foxtail millet.
That might work.
We might be able to make the
world's most delicious dish
that everyone in my old world loves.
We're making gourmet
survival food from scratch.
Now that's exhilarating.
We aren't actually eating
this foxtail millet, are we?
I think I'll pass.
We're whacking the hell out of
it to husk it so we can eat it.
Foxtail millet is genuinely,
ten billion percent a grain.
It's a primitive millet.
It looks mighty nasty.
It's covered in furry stuff.
It's a cycle of inspiration
and trial-and-error.
Food is a perfect example of science.
Now we have wheat flour,
or rather, foxtail millet flour!
Toss in wild bird eggs, and tenderize
it using potassium carbonate.
It's a dish of science,
discovered accidentally
by some nameless Mongol
sometime around the fourth century.
I guess there was some crazy nut like
you, Chrome, who would try anything.
Even in fourth-century Mongolia.
Th-This scent...
We had a name for this stupidly good
scientific food 3,700 years ago.
We called it "ramen."
But this is actually foxtail millet, isn't it?
I'll make sure it's safe!
It's the duty of a sorcerer not
to be afraid of anything new!
I-It's good!
Dude!
It's so chewy and slippery!
I've never had anything like it!
I can't believe such a thing
would exist in this world!
I guess I'll dig in, too.
It's been 3,700 years since
I've had a proper meal.
It wasn't proper at all.
What did I expect from foxtail millet?
It's so damn crumbly, and it has
a horrible, bitter aftertaste.
I guess it's edible if you
think of it as medicine.
Then again, for them,
I'm sure it's the food of the gods.
This'll work.
Foxtail millet ramen!
What is going on?!
Something smells really good!
People have waged wars over pepper.
Ramen
That's how fundamental
food is to civilization.
I'm going to colonize this village
with the scientific food that is ramen.
You look like the villain.
Next Episode
Let There Be the Light of Science
This is a work of fiction, but the plants,
animals, and production methods described are based on reality.
Foraging and making things on your own accord is extremely dangerous
and, in some cases, illegal. Please do not imitate without expertise.